Jacob Clingerman: Hi, I'm Jacob.
I'm part of the Enterprise
and Education team
and I'm here to talk about
existing app distribution
methods
for business and education
customers
and to introduce
a new option for getting apps
to your institutional customers.
As a developer for business
or education institutions,
you have different audiences
who use your apps.
These could be
company employees,
affiliated partners,
students and teachers,
and the general public.
Each of these audiences have
different ways they get apps.
Let's review the current
app distribution options
and what methods are available
for each audience.
If you're developing
and distributing an app
for a consumer audience,
you publish the app
in the App Store,
and customers install it
on their own personal devices.
If you're building a general
productivity app for consumers,
students, teachers,
and business professionals,
the public App Store is
how you'd distribute it.
Now if you're building apps
for institutional customers
in the enterprise
and education space,
you have additional distribution
options to consider.
This audience could include
company employees,
school teachers, and students.
You can still publish
these apps to the App Store,
like the productivity apps
example.
You can also make
these apps available
for private distribution,
using custom apps
or the Apple Developer
Enterprise Program.
Customers in this audience
will use Apple Business Manager
or Apple School Manager
to purchase apps
on behalf of their employees
and students
and manage these apps
on corporate
or institutional devices
using a Mobile Device
Management --
or MDM -- solution.
Use the App Store
if you're developing an app
that is intended
for the general public.
Organizations will also be able
to distribute these apps
as managed through
Apple Business Manager
or Apple School Manager
and MDM.
This means the app
can easily be used
by both consumers
on unmanaged devices
and employees or students
on managed devices.
Numbers is a good example
of this kind of app.
It has functionality
for the general public,
consumers can get it
through the App Store,
and institutional customers
might install it
as a managed app on all
corporate-owned devices
as part of a baseline
productivity suite.
App Store distribution is what
you're used to as a consumer.
Employees can choose apps
they want to install themselves
on personal
or unmanaged devices,
and institutional customers
can purchase licenses
in Apple Business Manager
or Apple School Manager
and assign those licenses
to managed devices using MDM.
In contrast,
custom apps are designed
for private distribution
to organizations
who manage apps
on behalf of their employees,
staff, and students.
These can be apps
that you develop in-house
for distribution
to your employees,
or they can be apps that you
develop and make available
directly to specific
business and education customers
that you designate.
You can create custom apps
for iPhone, iPad, Mac,
and Apple TV.
Custom apps are purchased
using Apple School Manager
and Apple Business Manager
and deployed using MDM.
Many business developers
follow this model.
They make standard versions
of their apps available
on the public App Store
and also design tailored
versions for specific customers
that are only available to them.
For more information
about custom apps,
refer to the WWDC 2020 session
"Custom app distribution
with Apple Business Manager."
And if you're distributing apps
internally,
and your organization meets
the eligibility requirements,
you can use the Apple Developer
Enterprise Program.
This allows large organizations
to develop and deploy
proprietary, internal-use apps
to their employees.
This program is
for specific use cases
that require
private distribution
using secure internal systems.
You need to have
systems in place
to ensure only employees can
download your internal-use apps,
and to protect membership
credentials and assets.
And you must
participate in and pass
Apple’s verification interview
and continuous
evaluation process.
The last type of audience you
might want to distribute apps to
is third parties affiliated
with your customers
but who aren't direct
employees or students.
These could be
business partners,
franchise employees,
or other end users with devices
that aren't managed
by the organization,
like higher education students
or part-time employees.
This audience isn't eligible
for managed distribution
through Apple Business Manager
or Apple School Manager.
Currently, your only option
for distributing apps
to this audience is
through the App Store,
but that might not work
in all cases,
for example, when your app
doesn't meet the requirement
for broad public interest
and it wouldn't be
a good fit for the App Store.
One example of this use case
is an app for auto sales
and service.
An auto manufacturer wants
to develop and distribute
a single app
to their dealer network,
and their end users
are the affiliated
independent auto dealers.
The only way to distribute
an app like this
has been through the App Store,
even though it is intended
for a select, limited audience.
I’m happy to share more about another distribution option:
unlisted apps.
This addresses the need
to distribute an app
to a more limited audience
that includes both unmanaged
and managed users.
We're going to spend
some time reviewing
how you can incorporate
unlisted apps into your toolkit.
First, I'll give an overview
of what unlisted apps are.
I'll talk about when you would
consider using them.
I'll cover how you can make
these available,
and how to apply
and get started.
Let's meet unlisted apps.
Unlisted apps are distributed
through the App Store
just like public App Store apps.
You use your existing
individual or organization
developer program account
to submit and manage the app
on App Store Connect.
The app can be paid or free
and goes through App Review
like a standard App Store app
or custom app.
You can make your app
available in all regions
where the App Store
is available.
The primary difference is
that your app is not searchable
and the only way
end users can get it
is if they have
the unique app URL.
It also doesn't show up in
"More by this developer"
when browsing
the standard App Store.
One important thing to note,
while in-app purchase is
available for unlisted Apps,
in-app purchases
are not supported
for managed app distribution
through Apple School Manager
and Apple Business Manager.
With unlisted apps,
you get an App Store page
with a URL
which you can share as needed.
This gives you the ability
to develop and deploy an app
that otherwise wouldn't be
eligible for the App Store
because it has
a limited audience
or a specific functionality.
Unlisted Apps
are a great solution
if you have an app that you need
to deploy to a limited audience
that includes unmanaged users
and managed users.
For unmanaged users,
you can send the user the URL;
and for managed audiences,
you can assign the app licenses
through Apple Business Manager
or Apple School Manager and MDM
resulting in a managed app.
Approval is requested, reviewed,
and granted on a per-app basis.
We'll go into more details
on this process
during the Submission
and Review section.
Now, let's talk about
some specific examples
of when you'd use unlisted apps.
Let's say you're developing
an app that's intended
for shift workers
or part-time employees
using their own devices.
Maybe a timecard app
or a shift-scheduling app
that's specific
to their company.
Unlisted apps would be
a great option here,
because the app is intended
for a limited audience:
specific store
retail employees
who aren't using
managed devices.
And back to the automotive
example,
where an auto manufacturer
wants to distribute
an app to its dealerships;
many separate business entities,
potentially with a mix
of managed
and unmanaged devices.
Unlisted apps make it possible
to distribute this app
to third parties in a simple
and effective way.
And we see Volvo Cars
is doing just that.
With a strong emphasis
on customer service,
Volvo Cars wants to empower
its dealership network in Sweden
with an app
that lets them provide
an excellent service experience
to their shared customers.
The app enables Volvo Cars'
service technicians
with key features like alerts
when a customer arrives,
insight into a car’s
entire service history,
and prompt reminders to carry
out crucial follow-up calls.
Volvo Cars uses unlisted apps
to publish this app
through the App Store
without it being searchable,
as it's intended
for only a limited audience --
dealership employees.
Volvo shares the link
with their dealerships
who then provide it
to their own employees.
Unlisted apps are a new option,
but this doesn't replace
existing distribution methods.
If your app is intended
for the general public,
continue to use the App Store
for your app.
If you or your customers are
deploying just to employees,
Custom apps are likely
the better option.
Unlisted apps are intended
as an alternative
when existing
distribution methods
aren't the right fit for you
or your customers.
Next, let's take a look at how
end users get these apps.
There are two methods
for distributing unlisted apps.
The first is sharing the app URL
using email, website,
or some other private method.
Once the user gets the URL,
they are directed
to the App Store,
where they will download
and install the app
just as they normally would
with an App Store app.
The second method
is managed distribution
through Apple Business Manager
and Apple School Manager.
A content manager
or other authorized user
enters the URL
in Apps and Books,
then purchases or requests
the number of licenses they need
for their organization.
After that, the app is installed
on managed devices using MDM.
Because unlisted apps
use the App Store,
you can make
these apps available
for unmanaged distribution
in all regions where
the App Store is available
and for managed
distribution in regions
where Apple Business Manager
and Apple School Manager
are available.
These are publicly available
if the user has the URL.
Unlisted apps should not be
used as a security feature.
Consider implementing
a mechanism within your app
to prevent unauthorized use
if your app contains
sensitive information.
Now, let's talk about how to get
started and how to make sure
your unlisted app gets through
app review smoothly.
First, you’ll need
to submit a request
for unlisted app distribution.
This is a conditional
approval process
and each request
will be reviewed
to make sure your app
meets the requirements.
For new apps,
you can submit the request
as soon as you have
an app record
with “Prepare for Submission”
or later status.
If your app was already approved
for public download
on the App Store,
simply submit the request
and include information
about your app.
This allows you to convert
an existing Public app
to unlisted
if it meets the criteria
and if it would be better suited
to unlisted app distribution.
If your app was already approved
for private distribution,
you’ll need to create a new app
record in App Store Connect,
upload your binary,
and set the distribution method
to Public
before completing
the request form.
If you have additional apps,
you'll need to submit
a separate request for each one.
For more information and
to apply for an unlisted app,
review the "Unlisted
app distribution" article
on developer.apple.com.
Once your app is approved
for unlisted app distribution,
you'll see the distribution
option change
in App Store Connect.
Once the distribution method
is set to Unlisted,
this will persist across
all future app updates.
If this is an existing app,
the app will now be unlisted.
If this is a new app,
you will then continue
with app submission as usual.
Even though unlisted apps are
intended for a limited audience,
you still need to follow
app review guidelines.
Use only public APIs,
make sure your app runs
on the currently shipping OS,
and adhere to privacy guidelines
for collecting and storing
user data.
You want to make it easy
for your audience
to use your app.
Review the human interface
guidelines
for in-depth information
and UI resources
for designing great apps.
Provide demo account
and credentials
if your app requires
authentication.
This demo account should be able
to access all functions.
The intent is to make sure the
review team is able to inspect
all the functionality
and features of your app.
Submit good metadata
such as description,
keywords, and screen shots,
that show details
about your app.
Because you are providing
your app
to a specific audience
or market segment,
it's useful to include
those details
in the notes for App Review.
Wrapping up,
you have decisions to make
when you determine how your app
will get to end users.
Choose the public App Store
if your app is
of broad public interest.
Enterprise and education
customers can deploy these
as a managed apps
to their employees and staff.
Choose custom apps when
you are privately distributing
to a select group of customers
or internal employees
who are assigning the app
as a managed app
to their end users.
The Apple Developer
Enterprise Program
is only for the internal use
and distribution
of proprietary apps
and specific use cases
that are not adequately
addressed with public apps
on the App Store
or custom apps.
And now, unlisted apps allow you
to distribute an app
to a limited audience
when you need to your app
to go through
public distribution
for both an unmanaged
and managed audience.
Unlisted apps are available
for use today.
Thanks for watching,
and we look forward to seeing
what you do with unlisted apps.